Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we're going to continue building our featured Professor Block type to be more specific,
we want to work with this select element that we've set up and trade out the hardcoded one, two, three
values with an actual list of all of our professor posts.
And we need to achieve this with JavaScript.
Now, in this course, we've already learned how to load data via JavaScript, right?
So we know how to perform an asynchronous request with JavaScript to a rest API Eurail.
So our first instinct might be to just send a request to this API endpoint and we could do that.
It would work.
There's nothing wrong with that approach.
But right now, I do want to show you a new tool or a new way of loading data that is perfectly suited
for loading data here in the block.
Ed, let's jump right into the action.
So I want you to follow along with me.
I want you to open up your Web browsers console.
So open up your inspector or dev tools and then just click to the console tab and type this in with
me.
WP dot data, dot select.
And that's a function.
So parentheses to call it.
We'll give it a string of text called core that will return something.
What it returns.
We want to look inside that so dot git entity records and that's a function.
So parentheses to call it.
We're going to give it three arguments.
The first argument is quotes post type.
The second argument is the actual post type.
So that would be the professor post type.
And then the third argument is an object of different options.
Let's just give it an option of per page.
And if we set it to oops, I mean, zoom out so it fits on a single line.
If we set it to negative one, that will give us all posts in one trip.
Right.
It won't limit it to the first five or ten posts.
Now when we press enter, at first it looks like that returns nothing.
So we just see, no, this has to do with the asynchronous nature of JavaScript, right?
So when you run that code immediately, one millisecond later, there's no new data.
Right.
JavaScript does have to perform a network request.
But if we run that again, so you can just push the up arrow key on your keyboard and run it, well,
it had time to actually do its job now.
And you can see it returns an array.
I only have three professor posts, but it gave me an array with all of the posts.
So the point here is that when we're on the edit screen, WordPress with its own JavaScript API already
has the tools that we need to load data without us needing to manually send off our own HTTP requests.
We can just use these built in tools to fetch data on the fly.
And not only that, it gets even better.
So remember this situation where one millisecond after running it, it just returns null because it
takes a while to actually go fetch the data?
Well, the WordPress team has even created a react solution that makes it super easy to deal with this
asynchronous nature from within our react component.
The WordPress team as of late is truly spoiling us.
They're giving us amazing tools to work with.
So for the remainder of this lesson, I want to show you how we can write code like this from within
our REACT component.
It's 95 percent, this exact same code that we're seeing here, but it's a little bit different.
So right now, let's jump into our text editor within the S.A.C. folder, jump into Index JS up at the
top.
We want to import something new.
So maybe right below this S-E line, we can say import curly brackets from quotes at symbol WordPress
slash data.
Now in the curly brackets, what do we want to import?
Something called use select.
So the essence select is uppercase.
And let me show you how we're going to use this down in our edit component before we actually return
any JSM.
So just at the very start of the body of our function, let's say CONSED and you can make up any variable
name you want.
I'll choose a name of all Prof's, right, all professors and I'm going to set that to equal use select
which is a function.
So we're calling it in these parentheses.
We give it a function that it will run when appropriate.
Let's give it an S6 Arrow function with one parameter.
What we named the parameter doesn't matter.
But I'm going to name select.
We'll see why I'm naming it that in just a moment.
But then arrow symbol, curly brackets.
Let's drop down in the body of this function.
We want to return a value and whatever we.
Turn well, that's what the value for all profits is going to get set to.
Now, remember that code we wrote in the browser's console earlier in this video to refresh your memory
back in your console, you can just press the up on your keyboard.
So this code will now we're just going to write something very similar inside of our use select function.
So return and let's start with select.
This is the tool that you select is passing into our function, so it needs to perfectly match whatever
you named your parameter.
But we're just going to say select parentheses to call it say quotes core.
And now after this, to save you a bunch of typing.
If you go back into your console, you can just select the rest of this.
Right.
So essentially, instead of saying WP DataDot select, we're just using the select tool that the WordPress
function is giving to us, but then everything that comes after it will be identical.
So I'm just going to select from the dot git entity records until the end of that.
Copy that right here.
Just paste it in.
OK, and now to test that this is working or doing something right below this bit of code, but still
above our return.
So right about here, let's just console log all prof's, let's give that a save and back in the browser,
if we refresh, if we check the console first we see null and that's because that's what this is going
to equal one millisecond after it runs the very first time.
Right.
A network request takes a little bit of time.
So it's going to run once and return a value of null.
But then you select is smart enough.
It knows that any time that data store changes, it knows that our function needs to run again.
So the second time it runs, it's going to return the actual value.
And that's what we're console logging the second time.
And that's what you see here in the console.
So putting this all together, let's see how to use this for our actual react component.
Let me explain.
So if I scroll down to our component, here it is.
Right.
The select dropdown with the list of Prof's.
Here's what I want to do.
I want this block to just be nothing but a piece of text that says loading dot, dot, dot for that
brief moment while we're waiting on the network request to actually fetch the real professor data.
But then as soon as we actually have that data, then I would want to display the real content here.
So let me show you what I would do back in our code right before we return.
Our actual real jazz acts.
Right before that, I'm going to have an if statement and I'm going to say if.
For the condition, if all Prof's equals undefined, well, then I just want to return a bit of acts
that says loading, dot, dot, dot and in JavaScript are really just programming in general when you
return something in a function that stops the further execution of the function.
So if we return loading, dot, dot, dot, this will never be returned.
In other words, the first time that our component is rendered, we're going to see dot, dot, dot.
But then as soon as this is false, right, as soon as all Prof's actually equals the data we want it
to equal, well, then this will be used.
So check this out.
If we save and refresh, you'll have to move very quickly.
But you'll see that for a split second.
I don't even know if I can scroll down there fast enough.
If I zoom out super zoomed out like this and I refresh.
Yep, I'll do it again, notice that for a split second, you see loading dot, dot, dot down here
where our block is, but then as soon as that data is ready, our block renders cool.
Let me zoom back in.
So now it's as simple as just using all Prof's to populate our select dropdown.
So let's do that right now down in our select element.
Let's keep the very first option that just says select a professor and then before we delete the hardcoded
one, two, three, be sure you select one of them into your clipboard that we can use as a template.
So I'm just going to make sure I've copied this number one instance into my clipboard and then we can
delete the one, two, three, OK, in their place.
So below the selected professor option, let's have curly brackets to do something dynamic and then
I'm just going to loop through the array of professors.
So remember, in our console, the all prof's variable is just an array with three objects and each
one represents a professor post.
So let's do this in our curly brackets here will say all prof's in JavaScript, every array has access
to the map method.
We give map a function.
Let's have a S6 Arrow function where the parameter is proff for each individual professor that's currently
been looped to so arrow symbol curly brackets inside there we can dropdown and then we're just going
to return a bit of X just so I can drop down to multiple lines if I want to.
I'll have parentheses here and then in the parentheses just paste in your clipboard.
So now we just need to hollow this out or make it dynamic.
So for the value it would be value equals curly brackets instead of quotes, and we would just work
with the parameter for the current item that's been looped to.
So Prof.
Dot and then if you can't remember, you can always just look at the console and that shows you the
actual data that we're getting.
So each post is an object and you can see they have a property named IDE with that numeric post ID.
So we would just say Proff dot ide.
And then for the logic that decides whether the current item should be highlighted already.
Well, we can keep this, but just the value we're checking against instead of hardcoded one that would
again just be Proff I.D. And then if you want to, you can drop down to a new line so that the opening
and closing HTML tags are like this.
OK, and then for the actual readable text that you would click on, let's get rid of that curly brackets.
It would just be Proff dot and then you can look at the console.
So each object, if you expand it, you can see they have a property called title, which in itself
is an object.
And then inside of that there's a property called Rendered.
So that's what I want here.
Write the actual text value.
So it would just be proform title dot rendered.
Let's save this and test it out.
So if I go back and refresh, let me scroll down and find our block type.
Select a professor if I click on it.
Perfect.
So if I choose the second option, Dr barks a lot and then actually click update to save the post and
then refresh.
We're just trying to make sure that that value is actually stored and remembered.
So if I scroll back down.
Perfect, you can see it remembered my choice of doctor barks a lot.
And then to really sort of visualize the data of what's being saved, you could always go into your
database and we can go into the posts table, click select data, be sure to choose the very last or
final page.
Click on the very last entry.
If I look in the post, underscore content field.
If you scroll down, perfect.
So our block is being represented by this comment that says the exact type of block and then the attribute
is simply ID with that post ID.
Now that we're successfully storing that post ID, we have everything we need to truly move forward.
So in our very next lesson, let me show you a sneak preview of what we're going to build.
We can start working on the actual front end code that displays the content for that professor.
Really, now that we know the post ID, we're just going to query for that post and display the appropriate
content.
I think it should be fun to connect the dots.
Let's keep things rolling and I'll see you then.